Now what I did behind the scenes since this is already about the stylings, I created this switch component.
Now you will find the code attached to this lecture
but I will quickly walk you through that of course. In the template,
I simply have two divs,
one has the ID one, on, excuse me, and one has the ID off, both has a click listener where I simply toggle
isOn to true or false depending on which switch I click. Well and then I add a class which is the
active class
and this depends on whether isOn is true or false, depending on which switch we are
and then down there, I have a couple of styles, on and off, my two boxes basically got a width, a height, background
color, some padding
I want to display in inline block to have them sit next to each other and negative margin to left
and right to have them sit directly on each other, some box sizing, make the cursor a pointer and center the
text.
And then I got this active class which has the same effect as when I hover over a switch, well light
green
in the case of the on switch and light coral in the case of the off switch.
Then I went to the app.vue file where I simply imported the switch up here and added it as a local
component here in the components property,
that of course allows me to use it in my template there where I inserted this row right below the select
dropdown,
so this is a normal bootstrap row with the same column class as we had before
and then my custom input.
Now I don't have any input related logic there, that's just the styling,
it leads to this layout,
we got on and off switch here.
However I'm not able to listen to that,
I'm not able to set a value,
this is what we'll work on together.
So let's make this component more than just some optical sugar,
let's actually turn it into a real control we can use.
I want to use it here with a new component where I simply say data switch and set this to true by default.
Now I want to be able to use this on my custom component
I added here by adding v-model to it and binding to data switch, so this shall pass
true or false or it react to changes in this component.
Now as I explained earlier, that means that I have to set up the value prop in my component and emit an
input event,
so let's work on this next.
I want to set up the value prop and this input event in my switch component,
so to do so, I will go to my object export here and I will add my props and this will be an array and
I know that I should be able to handle a value because this is what v-model will give me in the end,
these values shall be true or false,
I could add prop validation here,
I'll leave it simple like that and then I want to use value.
Now how do I want to use value in this component here though?
Well I no longer want to use isOn here,
I can actually remove this, instead here, I want to use value and set value to true or false here
and also check value here because this is my new isOn property,
this will be true or false
passed from outside but now also changeable from inside.
So here, I'm able to use it and change it,
now of course I also need to submit an event.
So here when clicking, setting value to true or false is not really all I need,
instead I should use my methods objects here to simply add the switch method let's say
or since this is a reserved name, let's use switched.
So here I want to output switched and I want to pass
true since this is the on case and here I want to use switched and pass false because here, I want to set
it to false.
So what I'll do here is I will simply emit with this emit,
we learned that before, a custom event and the event has to have the name input because that is what v-model
is waiting for
and then here, I can simply output well the value I'm passing here, I'll name it isOn again and I will pass
that on.
Now with this, let's go back to our main component where we use our own switch and let's add a new paragraph
here where I will say switched to output the data switch property, this data switch property again is
bound to my custom component.
Let's see if this works how it should, we see true here
and if I switch this to off, it changes to false.
And with that, we built our own control very very easily as you see by adding a new component which has
these two key features
it has to have to work with v-model.
It takes a prop of value and it emits an input event,
all the other logic inside this component is totally up to you,
this may be much more complex than just two divs
of course, this is up to you.
The key thing is that what you get in value and what you output, the input event. And with that, you can
use your own components as controls in your forms, awesome.